<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
 <title>श्रीमाधवीयश्रीशङ्करदिग्विजयसारः</title>
<link type="text/css" rel="stylesheet" href="css/style.css" />
</head>
<body class="maintext">
<section class="level1 unnumbered" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" id="id-000d">
<h1 class="level1-title en" epub:type="title">Foreword</h1>
<p class="en">That was the time when the practice of Sanatana Dharma was at its lowest ebb. Avaidika Practices were blindly followed. Sanatan Dharmic followers were put to a lot of difficulty. It was at this juncture that Lord Paramashiva took birth as Shankara and resurrected the age-old vedic practices. This happened in the 8th century - 1200 years ago.</p>
<p class="en">Lord Shiva took birth as Shankara in a small village in Kerala called Kalady. Though by the age of 8 years He had full proficiency in all Vedas and by age 16, had mastered all the shastras, to uphold the tradition, He went in search of a Guru and got sanyasa deeksha from Govinda Bhagavadpada on the banks of river Narmada. He then traversed the entire country, wrote Prasthana Traya Bhashya, through convincing debates won over all scholars and made them realize the truth of Veda Dharma, ascended the Sarvagna Peetha in Kashmir, established four amnaya peethas and put each one under the aegis of His four pramukha sishyas, wrote prakarana granthas for the benefit of ordinary scholars, and hundreds of slokas invoking various forms of God for the benefit of the common man and disappeared at Kedar in the Himalaya. All these in a short span of 32 years!</p>
<p class="en">For all followers of Sanathana Dharma, its resurrector Adi Shankara is God Himself. Every one of them venerates him and follows His teachings and direction as the ultimate. </p>
<p class="en">It is but natural that every follower would deem it his duty to study and understand the life of Adi Shankara. Many biographies have been in circulation over centuries. However, the one written by Madhava, earlier name of sage Vidyaranya, - the 12th pontiff in the unbroken Guru Parampara of Dakshinamnaya Sringeri Sharada Peetham - named Madhaveeya Shankara Digvijaya, is considered as the credible one and all scholars, traditionalists and historians follow this for understanding the life history of Adiguru. Sage Vidyaranya was an unparalleled scholar and his other works also rank on top in the Vaidika Grantha Mala.</p>
<p class="en">Madhaviya Shankara Digvijaya is a very scholarly poetic work of more than eighteen hundred shlokas spread over sixteen chapters and needs deep knowledge of Sanskrit language for one to appreciate and understand. On the directions of His Holiness Jagadguru Shankaracharya Dakshinamnaya Sringeri Sharada Peethadeeshwara Sri Sri Bharathi Theertha Mahaswamiji, this work was translated with commentary in Kannada and got published about 25 year back. In order to facilitate a glimpse of this great work, and at the same time give a complete account of life of Shankara, an abridged version consisting of 214 shlokas selected from this work was published in Kannada in 2015.</p>
<p class="en">Now an effort is being made to make this abridged version available as a e-publication so that it can be freely downloaded by everyone and read with English translation. This effort will definitely be welcomed by modern generation who are into e-world. This is being made available on the auspicious occasion of Sharvari Samvathsara Shankara Jayanthi celebration.</p>
<p class="en">I sincerely congratulate and thank Prof. Sri Yogananda, Vidwan Sri Srinivasa Karantha and Sri Giridhara for making this possible. </p>
<p class="en">May Goddess Sharada and our Jagadgurus bless every Sanathana Dharma followers with a contented life, Keenness to follow the path of Dharma and eagerness to study and understand the life of our Adiguru.</p>
<p class="text-right en"><small>Padma Shri Awardee, Karnataka Rajyotsava Awardee,</small><br /> <b>Guru Seva Dhurina V.R. Gowri Shankar,</b><br /><small> B.E., DIISC, MIMA CEO and Administrator,</small><br /><small> SRI SRINGERI MATH and ITS PROPERTIES</small> </p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
