<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
	<title>श्री लक्ष्मीधर विरचित | अद्वैतमकरन्दः | श्री स्वयंप्रकाशयतिकृत टीका सहित</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/style.css" />
</head>
<body class="maintext">
	<section class="level1 numbered" epub:type="chapter" role="doc-chapter" id="id-000c">
		<h1 class="level1-title" epub:type="title"><span class="num">INTRODUCTION</span></h1>
<p class="en">A unique feature of the Advaita philosophy as taught by Sri Sankaracharya is that it can bear summing up in the shortest compass. In the words of the late M. N. Dvivedi it can be expressed "in half a verse or a quarto volume of many hundred pages." This philosophy which in the words of Dr. Theodore Goldstucker “is the sublimest machinery set in motion by oriental thought" yet rests upon a minimum number of postulates and needs for its defence but a few simple arguments based upon the facts of our daily experience. </p>
<p class="en">It is this profound simplicity which has enabled Vedanta writers to compose those gems of short treatises, or Prakaranas as they are styled, which so richly abound in the literature of the Advaita Vedanta and which in a few telling but homely verses bring home the cardinal doctrines of Advaita even to the unlettered multitude. The Advaita makaranda of Lakshmidhara is one of these priceless gems. Its marvelous brevity and the compelling force of its arguments remind one of the still more wonderful Dasasloki of Sri Sankaracharya. In the short compass of 28 clean-cut anushtubh slokas the entire philosophy of the Advaita is dealt with, with a comprehensiveness, simplicity and precision which are simply admirable. The closely reasoned thesis contained in each sloka can well be expanded into a volume. The commentator is therefore thoroughly justified when he states " यद्यप्यत्र प्रतिश्लोकं बहु वक्तव्यमस्ति तथापि मन्दबुद्धीनामलसानां व्युत्पादनार्थ प्रवृत्तेन मया मन्थकाठिन्यगौरवभयादुपरतम्". In fact the Advaitamakaranda must be got up by heart by those who want to provide themselves with an armoury of arguments in defence of the Advaita position. </p>
<p class="en">Of Lakshmidhara Kavi the author of the Advaitamakaranda we have very little information. Besides the Advaitamakaranda he has composed Amritatarangini, a commentary on the Srimad Bhagavata, and Bhagavannamakaumudi. At the end of the latter work he says: येन भागवतव्याख्या कृतामृततरङ्गिणी अद्वैतमकरन्दश्च सोऽकरांनामकौमुदीम ॥ (vide p. 878 of the Triennial Catalogue of Mss. collected for the Government Oriental Manuscripts Library Madras). From the Bhagavannamakaumudi we also learn that Lakshmidhara was the disciple of Anantananda Raghunatha Swami. </p>
<p class="en">Regarding his date no positive information is forthcoming. Mahamahopadhyaya Vasudeva Sastri Abhyankar of Poona, in his valuable edition of Sarvadarsanasangraha (p 538) assigns Lakshmidhara to 1320 A.D. No ground is however stated for this statement. Bodhendra Sarasvati the renowned devotee and apostle of the namakirtana cult in South India states in his Bhagvannamamritarasodaya that Lakshmidhara flourished in the reign of King Bhojaraja of the 11th Century A.D. (नामकौमुद्यां भोजराजेन पूजितलक्ष्मीधरकविभिः). This statement also requires confirmation, coming as it does from a writer who flourished so late as the second half of the 18th century A.D. A critical examination of Bhagavannamakaumudi and Bhagavata tika may furnish details regarding Lakshmidhara. As we have at present no access to these works we shall simply content ourselves with determining the latest date beyond which Lakshmidhara cannot be placed. </p>
<p class="en">Firstly, Lakshmidhara's Bhagavannamakaumudi was commented upon by Anantadeva (or Nandadeva as is found in some Mss.) son of the celebrated Mimamsa writer Apadeva and the author of Smritikaustubha, Bhattalankara (a commentary on his father's Mimamsanyayaprakasa) and Siddhantatattva, a treatise on Advaita Vedanta. In his Smritikaustubha, Anantadeva states that he was a protege of Baj Bahadur, king of Kurmachala who flourished between 1644 and 1664 A.D. Hence Lakshmidhara could not have flourished later than the beginning of the 17th Century A. D. </p>
<p class="en">Secondly, Brahmananda Bharati, the author of the commentary on Bharati Tirtha's Vakyasudha alias Drigdrisyaviveka quotes Lakshmidhara by name in his comments on the 46th sloka (अस्य साक्षिणः साक्षित्वं साक्ष्यापेक्षं न तु वास्तवमित्येतदपि अद्वैतमकरन्दकारैर्निरूपितं चत्योपरागरूपा मे साक्षितापि न तात्विकी उपलक्षणमेवेय निस्तरङ्गचिदम्बुधेरिति|. Brahmananda Bharati is also the author of Purusharthaprabodha, a treatise devoted to the exaltation of Siva in the light of the Advaita Vedanta. Now Appaya Dikshita (1554 to 1626 A. D.) refers to Purusharthaprabodha in his Sivatattvaviveka "पुरुषार्थप्रबोघे हि पूजायाः पार्वतीपतेः । नित्य सदा यावदायु कदाचिदतिक्रमेत ॥ इत्युक्त्यातिक्रमे दोषश्रुतैरत्यागचोदनात् । फलश्रुतेवाप्सया च नित्यमुपपादितम् ॥ स्फुटं तत्रैव तत्सर्वमिति नेह विलिख्यते" (page 140 of the Kumbakonum Edition). And from the fact that Brahmananda Bharati has commented upon the work of Bharati Tirtha, the Guru of Sri Vidyaranya who flourished at the close of the 14th century A. D., it is clear that he lived between the 15th and 17th centuries A.D. We may not be far wrong if we assign Brahmananda Bharati to the end of the fifteenth century. Lakshmidhara who is quoted by Brahmananda Bharati must have lived in the first half of the fifteenth century A.D. at the latest. As already stated by us we have for the present to rest satisfied with this piece of negative evidence. </p>
<p class="en">The commentator Svayamprakasa Yati describes himself as the disciple of Kaivalyananda Yogindra. He also pays obeisance to Suddhananda, Sivananda and Sacchidananda. Besides this commentary (रसाभिव्यञ्जिका) on the Advaitamakaranda he has also composed the following works (1) हरितत्त्वमुक्तावलिः, a commentary on Sri Sankaracharya's Haristuti ; (2) तत्त्वसुधा, a commentary on Sri Sankaracharya's Dakshinamurtistotra; (3) A commentary on the Manisha Panchaka of Sri Sankaracharya'. All the above works are available in print. Nothing definite is known about his date. He may be safely identified with the Svayamprakasa Yati, the teacher of Mahadevananda Sarasvati who wrote the Tattvanusandhana and its commentary Advaitachintakaustubha and of Achyutakrishnanandatirtha, the commentator of Siddhantalesasangraha, who according to tradition, lived 180 years ago on the banks of the Kaveri in the Trichinopoly District. Svayamprakasa's commentaries are full, lucid and to the point. The numerous apt quotations from Advaita classics show the extent of his erudition. In short, both the Advaitamakaranda and its commentary deserve the careful perusal of those who are interested in the study of the Advaita philosophy. Mr. T. K. Balasubrahmanya Aiyar, the Managing Director of the Sri Vani Vilas Syndicate Ltd., is to be congratulated on his choice of this admirable treatise for inclusion in “The Sastra Booklet Series.” </p>

<p class="en">Tirutturaipundi . 04-08-1926</p>
<p class="text-right en"> R. Krishnaswami Sastri.</p>

<p class="en">P.S.: After the above introduction was finished we had occasion to look into the "List of Mss. collected for the Government Mss. Library” published by the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute Poona 1925. On page 44 of the List against serial number 300 the following entry occurs: "अद्वैतमकरन्दव्याख्या स्वयंप्रकाशानन्दः लिपिकालः श ० 1626" (1704 A. D.). This date, we are glad to note, strikingly confirms our identification of the commentator of the Advaita makaranda with Svayamprakasa Yati, the guru of Achyutakrishnananda who lived about 180 years ago. Perhaps the Poona manuscript might have been written by the commentator himself. </p>


	</section>
</body>
</html>
